Remember the movie poster from the last video. You look at the image and with the
superpower of your own human brain, you interpret what you see to
answer some simple questions. Who are the actors in the movie? What are the showtimes at this theater? You organize the sight of the poster to
get some information that interests you. If you take a photograph of the movie
poster with your phone, you do have data, but the form of the data as image pixels determines what use you can easily
make of that data. Think about what you need to do
if I share with you my photographs of every movie
poster on display in a city, and then you want to find all the
movies starring one certain actor. Now, imagine a simple table or spreadsheet
with each row containing the movie title, the actor names and the showtimes. This may not be as aesthetically
pleasing as the pictures of posters, but it makes things much simpler
if you want to find a movie with some actor or answer some simple
questions about a movie. Notice, of course, you cannot answer any questions about information
that is not included in your data. For instance, your table with
movie title, actor names and showtimes, cannot tell you whether there are tickets 
available for a certain showing of the movie. What if instead of sharing my
movie poster photos, I share all my photos including
shots of restaurant menus, friends I meet, buildings I like. This may carry more information but it
makes it even tougher for you to answer a simple question about what movies
are showing with a certain actor. The important thing to learn here is
that the organization of data has a major impact on how easily you can
use the data to answer questions. At this point, I'd like to
establish a few terms. By the way, you may have colleagues
who use these terms with a meaning similar to the definitions here
but not identical. It's OK as long as you know that the
meanings given here are generally accepted and you can clear up the details with
your colleagues if any confusions arise. A data store is a collection of data
of any type. This is a general term and it can be used
for collections of different sizes. For instance, I could call the collection
of photos on my smartphone a data store. I might have a cloud storage account
with photos, videos and text messages. This is a different, larger data store, and I could upload all my photos from
my phone to this larger data store. The service that maintains my
cloud storage also has a much larger data store of
all the documents saved by all of its users. A database is an organized data store. A simple example of a database is a
spreadsheet containing movie titles, actors, and showtimes. You can even organize your photos
and call that a database. A database can contain organized
data about different topics. For instance, I can have another
spreadsheet of movie theaters, with name of the theater, address, and parking information,
if available. If I like, I can keep the movie
spreadsheet and the theater spreadsheet together
in the same folder, and I can call those different
parts of the same database. A type of software that helps you organize data
is a database management system or DBMS. A DBMS enables you to create a database, add and update data, and easily retrieve data based on
its organization. Electronic DBMSs were first developed in 1960s and have enjoyed increasingly
widespread use since then. Informally, you may call the
combination of your database and the DBMS software you use a
database system.