Data analysts work with guess what? Data. Starting from the beginning: What Is Data? In this specialization,
data means digital data. Information that can be transmitted,
stored, and processed using modern digital technologies, like the Internet,
disk drives, and modern computer. Imagine that you walk
by a movie theater and see a movie poster about
a new movie you want to see. You enjoy the image and you read to
find out about the actors in the movie. And the showtimes at the local theater. So you get information that is
interesting and useful to you. But does the site of the movie
poster itself comprise data? No, the poster presents
an image to your eye. Which you read and interpret to get
the actors' name and the showtimes. So an actual object or a direct
sensory experience is not really data. But you can have data about those things. Data is a representation of something that captures some features and
ignores others. Now data itself can be divided into two
kinds, analog data and digital data. A photograph of the the movie poster taken
with a film camera is not digital data. An image from photographic film results
from chemical processes on photosensitive materials with essentially infinite
continuous ranges of color on paper. In contrast,
a digital scan of the movie poster or a photo taken with
a smartphone is digital data. It can be saved, copied,
sent to another smartphone, displayed on many screens, so on. A film photograph requires mechanical and
chemical processes to reproduce. But a smartphone photograph is
just numbers stored in the phone. These numbers can be copied to
cloud storage, sent to another device, displayed on any number of screens. This may sound a bit philosophical but
it's worthwhile to notice the transition from things to representations
of those things as data. And since data analysts work with data, it's a basic skill to be able to
identify what is and is not data. Also please note that from now on,
whenever I say data, I always mean digital data unless
I specifically say otherwise.