Table columns each have a name and
a data type, but they can also have other properties. Here's one more column property for
now: NOT NULL. Sometimes a row can have
no value at all for one or more of its fields, which are the values
for the different columns. The special term for
no value is NULL, or a NULL value. Note that NULL is not the same as zero for
numbers. And for STRING columns, it's not even the same as an empty string,
a string with no characters. NULL is the absence of any value at all. So then another property of a column
is that it can be NOT NULL. This means that a row must have
a value supplied for that column, or it is not a legal row. Look at this revised schema. Now there are notes that the id column and
the name column are both NOT NULL columns. So, a row in a table must
always have a value for id and a value for name. But this note does
not appear for the price column, a row may occur with no value
given at all for the price. Look at the table schema and
the data given here. The values in every row conform to the
data types of their respective columns, and the NOT NULL columns
have values in all the rows, so all the rows are legal
according to the table schema. Notice here that the word
"NULL" is presented for the price in one of the rows. Many of the database systems
will have some way to indicate a NULL value in a row
whenever the row is printed out, and the printed word
NULL is one common way. This first course emphasizes concepts, and so the syntax for
INSERTing rows comes up in a later course. However, I can tell you that there are two
common ways to indicate a NULL value for part of a row: one is to leave the value out
of the row INSERTed, like so. This is not SQL syntax: I'm just giving
the data for a row presented clearly. Since no value is given for price,
the row must use a default value. In some systems,
there could be a default for columns whose values are not
supplied on an INSERT. If no value was specified in the table
schema, the missing value must be NULL. The other way to supply a NULL value
is to use the word NULL explicitly in the row values. It's important to get to
know the schema of any table, because that tells you what kind
of data can be in the table. And so, what kind of information you
can expect to store and retrieve. There's more to say about data types and
I'll continue with that in the next video.