Some data can be characterized as 
"semi-structured." This is usually defined as data in 
which fields in a record are tagged, but there is no definite schema that 
all records are guaranteed to meet. Look at this set of JSON records: You can see the tags: name, pcode, age, and city in these 
records. However, there could be other records 
in the dataset, and you have no guarantee that only 
these tags will appear, or that field values will have 
consistent data types. Another form of semi-structured data is XML. This clearly indicates tags and values 
for different records, but again, the XML document alone does not have a schema. Many data services on the Internet provide data records on request using a 
programming API. Such records most commonly come to you 
as JSON or XML. Of the two, JSON is more popular, mostly because it is more compact. JSON and XML are the most common forms 
of semi-structured data. A CSV file with column headers is another 
form of data with labels but no schema. Similarly, if you create a spreadsheet, you can have headings for each column, but you have no constraint that 
requires you to record similar data elements consistently in a column. Informally, some people use the word semi-structured to mean that data has 
some structure, but without their regularity or schema 
of structured data. Look at this log file example from the 
documentation on the Apache HTTP Server: An Apache Server can be configured to 
emit a log entry like this for every request it receives, and the total of all such log records hitting a website is indeed a rich source of information. The fields in this line are defined: Armed with this information, you can 
use character patterns like regular expressions to break out pieces of the character string into specific, 
atomic values, and these can be shaped into a 
structured record to the extent that all records conform 
to this format. The challenge with log files is that servers may have a variety of options 
in what is logged, and there is no enforcement of the 
content or format of logs. Also, the logging options of different 
kinds of servers may vary, and custom logging created by engineers 
can vary widely in the kinds of data recorded. So, in this second, looser definition 
of "semi-structured data," log files serve as a good example.