Unstructured data, is plainly enough, 
data without clear, definite structure - - especially the structure you find in normalized relational tables, using 
atomic values and simple data types. Natural language text is one type 
of unstructured data. Look at these two records: These lines carry information about 
individuals' names and ages, but not in a consistent, organized form, with names and ages put into atomic fields. Suppose you have ten thousand lines 
of text like this, where people give their name and age
in years, using informal language. You cannot readily use this content to find 
the average age, or the most common name. Even this simple text presents 
obstacles to analysis. And the broader case of written text in 
general is even more challenging to analyze. Media files are also examples of unstructured 
data. Of course these files have a definite format, like MP3 for audio or PNG for images, but they are not files of the simple data types 
you have for relational database tables. You can readily store and copy media files, and you can reproduce sound and images 
from them using suitable technology, but what if you want to search the data? Imagine if you have MP3s of 5,000 songs, and you want to find songs with a 
particular singer. MP3 files do have an optional metadata tag, with up to 
30 optional characters for "artist name", but if the singer names are not found there, you cannot easily search the files. You must first tag every file with a 
singer names, and then you can search the tags, and 
not the MP3 content itself. Media files, satellite images, medical x-rays - all these are examples 
of unstructured data. Relational databases do allow you to 
store some unstructured data. I'm thinking of the character data type. Many RDBMSs provide a character string 
type that will store just over 65,000 characters 
in one field of a row. This is more than enough for most 
news articles, and you can use a column for natural 
language in this way, then that qualifies as unstructured data. Even more extreme or the BLOB and CLOB datatypes sometimes supported, that I mentioned 
briefly before. A BLOB column can store up to 4 gigabytes 
of binary data; and a CLOB, up to 4 gigabytes of character data. Not all RDBMSs support these data types, 
and those that do provide no functionality at all for 
searching or analyzing their contents. As far as the database is concerned, BLOB and CLOB columns are undifferentiated masses of data that 
can be stored and later retrieved, and that is all. When you leave out BLOBs and CLOBs, and you use text only for atomic values 
like names and labels, then you can equate your relational 
tables with structured data. But the broad range of digital media 
and text we have today form a great mass of unstructured data.