The volume enabled by big data storage 
means that you can capture the contents of your operational databases 
at different times, many times over. But that's far from everything you can store. Here's an important example. In the recent past, organizations would keep machine logs from their applications for a limited period 
of time - - maybe for 24 hours, or for a few days. These logs were then used for troubleshooting 
problems in the short term. Today, you can capture and store logs 
spanning years, so that this data becomes more than a resource 
for troubleshooting recent problems: it is now a new source for insight about 
the activities and trends in your business. It's easy to turn on informational logging 
in production programs, and logs can be generated, captured, and stored without interfering with the normal 
operations of the application. And then, there's publicly available data. Online search engines are able to 
record and keep details about every search ever 
entered, and social media sites keep every message and 
comment, on every subject. News archives are digitized and current 
news articles are published in digital form. The number of datasets, articles, photos, audio, and videos available on the 
internet is only increasing. You can obtain these kinds of data 
for little or sometimes no cost. You can then use this data to gain 
richer insights into your own data. And then, there's the Internet of Things. The era of IoT is just beginning. Vehicles, appliances, and other devices 
will record simple measurements, generating data worldwide at a pace at least one or two orders of magnitude higher than the total production of 
digital data today. The important thing to notice is that, because big data stores let you store 
such high volumes of data inexpensively, you can now store many new kinds of data. So, big data has not just high volume, but also has high variety. You can classify digital data as
structured, semi-structured, or unstructured. These categories do not have 
strict boundaries, but they do have general meanings 
that you can understand and apply. I'll start with a discussion of 
structured data. A simple definition of structured data is: 
data that conforms to a set schema. Look at this simple schema and table 
from last week. The important thing about this table is 
- that without even looking at the data - you have a guarantee that every record 
that will ever appear in the table will always conform to the table 
schema, without any exceptions, ever. If the columns are NOT NULL, you have even stronger guarantees 
on the data. This is structured data. And since every record in a relational 
database is a row in a defined table, you have a guarantee of structure - - even more so if the database is 
normalized. The widespread use of relational databases, 
and the table definitions required for all relational data, yield a common notion that structured data, and data in a 
relational database, are equivalent. This is not universally true, but it is largely so. I will discuss ways a relational database 
can accommodate some unstructured data shortly.