Another very different kind of datastore is a search engine. These applications are not exactly focused on general purpose, operations or analysis. Instead, they specialize in letting you quickly search a mass of undifferentiated documents. The most well-known examples are Apache Solr and Elasticsearch. Solr Cloud refers to a clustered configuration of multiple Solr servers to achieve massive scale. Cloudera search is Solr Cloud fitted onto HDFS storage with tools that let you index extremely large datasets found in Hadoop clusters. Both Solr and Elasticsearch contain within the Apache Lucene, a high-performance indexing system that by the way was created by Doug Cutting, the co-founder of the Hadoop project. They are both especially strong with flexible lookups on text data. I have mentioned the limitations of relational systems with unstructured text data before. If you have some data set like the text of a few hundred thousand news articles, a relational database would be crippled, trying to find some particular quotation or passage. In contrast, a search engine like Cloudera search can index every word, with every word position in every article. So a look up of all the articles say with the word automobile and the word family, within five words of each other, can be found in a matter of milliseconds. These systems can even handle misspellings and synonyms on search terms. When you open a web browser and perform a search on some phrase and get results in under a second, you are using a search engine like Solr or Elasticsearch. Interestingly, the records in a Lucene index can have a schema. Like the day, author, publisher, and URL of a news article along with the article. More recent versions of Solr and Elasticsearch had taken advantage of this structure and have added SQL as a way to access these records even though SQL is not the principle language of these systems. Please don't worry if you find this survey of technologies overwhelming. Big data is one of the great expansions in modern computing and engineers worldwide are working to build even more useful systems in this area. In fact, most of these systems keep encroaching on one another in their attempts to add features. For example, Solr added its own SQL interface in April 2016. In this specialization, you will focus on the most well-established technologies for big data warehouses, Hive and Impala. However, your skills will be adaptable to a number of other tools in the future, not just the specific ones we use in these courses. You may notice that for the classifications here, there was a subgroup in the category of operational systems for semi and unstructured data, and another subgroup for structured data, but there were no such subgroups for analytic systems. While you can do some analysis activity on unstructured data, data warehouses depend upon structure in order to support the activity of deep analytic SQL queries. I would identify machine learning and natural language processing as disciplines for analysis of unstructured data these activities include the work of finding patterns in data that lacks structure to begin with.