If you're familiar with traditional relational
Database Systems, this week of the course
might have been disorienting for you so far. Because in a traditional RDBMS, the way you load
data into a table is usually by running
SQL statements, in particular Insert Statements, and Load Data Statements. But in this week so far, we have not used
any SQL statements to load data. Instead we've used Hue, and we've used
some Shell Commands. To understand why, remember, that in a traditional RDBMS, or a Traditional Data Warehouse, Data Storage is encapsulated
by the database software. This means that the only way to access the data in the tables, is by going through
the database software. So if you want to get
data out of a table, the only way to do that is by running an SQL
select statement, and if you want to put
data into a table, the only way to do that is also by running an SQL statement, for statement like
Insert, or Load Data. But with a Modern Data Warehouse, using an engine like
Hive or Impala, there are a variety of
ways to access the data. Hive and Impala do not
encapsulate the data. They don't even store the data. It's stored in a separate system
like HDFS, or S3. So to load data into a table, you do not need to go
through Hive or Impala. Anytime you'd like you
can load the data files directly into the HDFS directory, or the S3 bucket for that table. With a Hive and
Impala you often do not need to load the data
into a table at all. If the data is already
somewhere in HDFS, or S3, or one of the other
supported file systems, you can create a table to
query the data from there. No data needs to move. Even so, sometimes it is useful to have Hive or Impala load
the data into a table. Maybe you're familiar with
the traditional SQL syntax, for Insert, and Load
Data Statements, and it's just easier for
you to load data that way, or maybe you're building
a data process where every other step is implemented
as an SQL statement. So it's just easier to use an SQL statement to
load the data too. Or maybe you want Hive, or Impala to perform
some processing on the data as it's loading it into the table
storage directory. Well, the good news is
that Hive and Impala do support the Insert Statement, and the Load Data Statement. However, there are
some important differences in how you use these statements
with Hive and Impala, compared to traditional RDBMS's. In this week of the course, we'll show you how to use these, and some other
related statements, and we'll describe
what's different about them when you're using
Hive and Impala.