Welcome to week 4 of managing big data in clusters
and Cloud storage. This week of the course is
all about managing data sets. Remember that in Hadoop-based
clusters are platforms, table data is stored separately
from table metadata. The metadata for a table, which includes the
tables structure or schema is stored
in the metastore. You can create and manage
the metadata part of a table by using SQL statements like
CREATE TABLE and ALTER TABLE. You learned all about
those statements in the previous two weeks
of this course. The data for a table
is stored separately in a file system like HDFS or S3. In most of the examples in the earlier weeks of this course, the data was already loaded into the file system for you
and the task at hand was to define the metadata
so that you could query those data files with
Hive and Impala. But in the real world, the data will not always
be preloaded for you. So in this week of the course, you'll learn how to
load data into HDFS and S3. There is more than
one way to do this. So the content in this week is broken into four main lessons. First, we'll show how to
load data files into HDFS, the Hadoop Distributed
File System. HDSF is where Hive and Impala
store table data by default. You can load data into HDFS using Hue or using the command line. We'll show you how to do both. Next, we'll show how to
load data files into Amazon S3, the most popular cloud
storage platform. You can also do this using Hue but we'll focus
on the command line. We'll show two different ways to do it from the command line. Sometimes the source
data you want to load is not in files, instead it's in a table in a relational database system
like MySQL or PostgreSQL. There is a tool called Sqoop. They can move data between relational database systems
and HDFS or S3, we'll show you how to use that. Finally, we'll show how Hive
and Impala themselves can be used to move data into
tables by running SQL commands. We'll introduce
several SQL statements that you can use to
do this and we'll describe how Hive and
Impala typically require a different approach to loading data than relational
database systems. After this week of the course, you'll have all the
fundamental skills you need to create
Hive and Impala tables, load data into them, and manage those tables and data making changes as needed.