The first question some people ask 
about big data is: How big? The answer is a bit nuanced. Let me give a few sizes. A bit, of course, is a minimal unit 
of digital data, usually represented as a value 
0 or 1. A byte is 8 bits, and can store 
an integer from 0 to 255, or a single letter, or symbol 
from a narrow character set. 4 bytes can store an integer in the range 
around plus or minus 2 billion, and the most popular character encoding 
is UTF-8, which takes 1 to 4 bytes per character. Here are some larger units of storage, and I could go beyond exabytes 
to zettabytes or yottabytes. You probably know the size of the 
memory and disk storage of a powerful personal 
computer. The memory may be a handful of 
gigabytes are a little more, and the disk storage is likely 
to be a few terabytes or less. This machine allows you to store 
many emails, books, spreadsheets, photographs, 
applications, and more. You can readily run a relational 
database sized at a few gigabytes. Now, think of the size database 
that you would consider out of the question to 
maintain on this personal computer. Imagine if the computer is sized up 
for business use, and you can probably multiply the 
sizes by 10 or maybe 20. (Of course I'm giving only general 
figures here.) Now compare this to an analytic database I know of (running Apache Hive) that was 
sized at 300 petabytes in early 2014. There were larger data stores then, and there are even larger ones now. The biggest organizations today think 
in exabytes at the scale of their big data. So, what is the minimum volume for big data? I hate to commit to an exact number, but I once heard a speaker say 
around 30 terabytes. That sounds about right to me - - something on that order of magnitude:
of tens of terabytes. At that size, things slow down and you reach the limits of 
what you can expect to do with conventional software 
on a single-computer setup. The two important concepts I'm going 
to talk about in the next videos are one, the volume of big data is not 
just more: it's different. And two, technology that handles 
modest volumes of data breaks down with larger volumes of data. I'll elaborate in the next video, and later in the course.