In this course so far I've asked you to
query only the smaller tables on the VM, which are in the defaults database and
the toy, and fun databases. That's because I had not yet introduced the clauses that you need
to work with very large tables. But beginning in this week of the course
you'll start to learn about those clauses. So I'll start asking you to query
the larger tables on the VM. First, I'll ask you to query the table in
the wax database, which is just a little bit bigger than the tables in the fly
database, some of which are much bigger. Even though you'll be learning
how to work with larger tables, I'll still be using the tiny little
tables to teach and demonstrate. With these tiny tables you can see
the table, see the select statement, see the result all at a glance. And this is great for understanding what
different kinds of select statements do. So we're not done with
these tiny tables yet, but we'll add the larger tables to the mix. In this video I'll explain what's in
these databases named wax and fly. The wax database has just one table named,
crayons. This table describes 120
different crayon colors. The columns give the name of the color,
its hexadecimal code, and its red, green and blue values,
which each range between zero and 255. The hex code and the red, green and blue values assume we're representing
the colors using the RGB color model. There's also a column named pack, which gives the smallest pack
that the crayon comes in. The basic colors like blue and yellow
come in all the packs even the smallest, but some of the more exotic colors
only come in the bigger packs. So this pack column gives the number
of crayons that's in the smallest pack that the color comes in. The fly database has four tables named,
flights, airlines, planes, and airports. The flights table is the biggest of these. It has more than 60 million rows
representing passenger flights by major airlines in the United State for
a full decade from 2008 through 2017. This table is big, but it's not really so
big by today's standards. There are real-world tables
stored on clusters and in cloud storage today that
are many thousands of times bigger. But the data in the flights
table is big enough that if you tried to use traditional tools
to work with it, you would have trouble. It would be impossible at worst and
slow, or inefficient at best. It's with data this large that the value
of distributed SQL engines like Hive and Impala start to become evident. The other three tables in the fly
database, airlines, planes and airports are all related
to the flight's table. They have more information about
the airlines that operated these flights, the planes that flew them, and
the airports they departed from and arrived at. The data in this fly database is
real-world data from the US Department of Transportation. So it might contain records
representing airports you've been to or flights that you flew on. When you're analyzing
the data in a table as large as some of those in the fly data base. You should almost never run a select
statement that returns all the rows in the table. But if you use the WHERE
clause to filter rows, or if you use some of the other clauses you
will learn about later in the course. Then you can query a table this large and get a results that it's small enough
to work with or to interpret. So as you learn how to
use the WHERE clause and these other clauses,
more of the questions and quizzes will ask you to query these
bigger tables in the fly database. And you'll see that the remainder of
the course will start to have a bit of an aviation theme. This will culminate with the final
assignment in which you will write and execute some more complex queries on
these tables in the fly database. To analyze the data and
answer some important business questions. It will help for you to get familiar
with the tables in the fly database. Please see the reading for
more information about these tables and about the tables in the other databases,
too. Including how they're structured and
where the data comes from. The reading include descriptions
of every column, and some of them do require
further explanation. So see the descriptions there to
understand what they all represent.