Welcome to week 2 of managing big data in clusters
and cloud storage. In this week of the course, you learn how to create
databases and tables. Recall that with Hive and Impala, each table has two components. One is its metadata which
is stored in the metastore, and two its data which could be stored say in HDFS or in S3. This week of the course is
all about the metadata. The metadata for a table includes the column names and
their data type, and also things like where the data is stored and
what format it's in. So to create a table, you need to specify that metadata and store
it in the metastore. It's possible to do this
using the point and click actions in
the table browser in Hue, so you'll learn how to do that. But in many cases, it's better to use SQL commands to create
databases and tables. So you'll learn how to use the CREATE DATABASE and CREATE
TABLE statements in SQL. If you took the first course
in this specialization, you should recall that these statements are
in a category of SQL statements called
Data Definition Language or DDL. Every major SQL engine
supports DDL commands, but there are big differences in DDL across different SQL engines. What you'll learn in this course applies only to Hive and Impala. The CREATE DATABASE
statement is very simple and there's not
much to learn about it. So you'll spend most of
this week learning about the CREATE TABLE statement which has many clauses
and options. As part of to
CREATE TABLE statement, you'll learn the default
formatting and location of data files
for a table, and how to specify when you want something other
than the default. You'll learn about
some advanced table attributes including the use of Serializer
Deserializers or SerDes. Sometimes you might make
mistake when you create a table or change your mind
about some of the specific. So you'll learn how to
make changes to table schemas and what that
means for the data itself. Finally, you'll learn a bit more about how Hive
and Impala work, including how to move
between the two engines when you're managing or working with the tables in the metastore. Be sure to download and install the VM if you haven't already. You'll have lots of
opportunities to try these things in the VM yourself.