While you can usually
use either Hive or Impala to create
end-query tables, there's an important difference
between how Hive and Impala access the metastore. Hive retrieves metadata from the metastore every
time it builds a query, but Impala does not. Impala caches metadata in
memory to reduce query latency. This Impala cache
metadata consists of the structure and locations of tables retrieved
from the metastore, and also additional information
about table data files retrieved from the data storage
system like HTFS or S3. Impala's metadata cache helps it return query results as
quickly as possible. But the cached metadata can get out of sync with
the metadata in the metastore, and with the stored data files. This happens when changes
are made outside of Impala. For example, when new tables
are created using hive, when table data is imported
using Hughes table browser, or when table data is
added using HTFS command. When changes like this
occur outside of Impala, it's necessary to refresh
Impala's metadata cache. There are different ways
to do this depending on what changes were made
outside of the Impala. The refresh command updates
the information that Impala caches about the schema
of a particular table, and the locations and files for that table in
the data storage system. Use this command if
you have altered a table schema such as renaming a column or
added data to the table. The syntax is refresh
and the table name. But if you've added a new table to the database from
outside of Impala, then you'll need to use
a different command to update Impala's
metadata cache. The command is invalidate
metadata and the table name. This command causes Impala to add all the information about this new table to
its metadata cache. Finally ,you can also use invalidate metadata without
specifying a table. But be careful when you use this, it will mark the metadata
for all tables as tail, and will reload all the metadata when a new query is issued. For a large production
environment with many tables, this can be a very
expensive operation and it can take a long time. Note that when Impala itself modifies the metastore
or any stored files, it can automatically
update the cache metadata. So it's only changes
from outside of Impala that require you to
use any of these commands.