Welcome to this course, Managing Big Data in
Clusters and Cloud Storage. I'm Ian Cook. I'm Glynn Durham. This course is the third in
the specialization, Modern Big Data Analysis
with SQL from Cloudera. In the first course, I teach the key concept
behind relational databases, SQL or SQL, and big data. In the second course, I teach the fundamentals of
the SELECT statement in SQL. The statement you
use to query data. In both of those courses, we emphasize open-source
distributed SQL engines that can query extremely large
datasets, Hive and Impala. But before you can run SQL
queries using Hive or Impala, you need to have
some data to query. The data needs to be loaded onto a cluster or in cloud storage, and it needs to be structured in tables with rows and columns. Data doesn't usually load
and structure itself, somebody needs to do
the work to get it that way. If you have someone else
that does that work for you, congratulations.
That's great. Maybe you don't need
to take this course. But if you'd like to gain the
skills to do it yourself, then you're in the right place. That's what we'll teach
you in this course. Knowing how to manage big data in clusters
and cloud storage, is a valuable and
marketable skill. If you're working
as a data analyst, knowing how to move data around and create
your own tables, gives you a lot more power, more autonomy, and
more career opportunities. These are essential skills
for data engineers, data scientists, and
database administrators today. Managing large-scale data in
a modern data warehouse is very different than
it was in the age of traditional relational
database systems. The information and the
skills we'll teach you, are in growing demand today. The skills we teach
in this course and in the other courses
in this specialization, are also designed to provide
excellent preparation for the Cloudera Certified Associate Data Analyst Certification Exam. Earning this credential
is a great way to stand out and be recognized
by potential employers. You can earn it by taking
a hands-on practical exam using the same SQL engines
that we use throughout this specialization,
Hive and Impala. If you're interested
in this certification, you should take the Honors
track of this course. In the Honors lessons, you'll learn some advanced skills for overcoming obstacles, like when your data
has complex structure, or your queries take
too long to run. These are skills you'll need to practice data management
in the real world. If you have not already taken the first two courses
in this specialization, we strongly encourage
you to take them, unless you already have a solid grasp of
the material they cover. Please go ahead now and
read the next lesson item, review and preparation,
which gives a whirlwind review of
those two courses. That should help you
decide whether to take them if you
have not already. Maybe you're looking to elevate yourself from just querying data to loading and structuring data in
clusters and cloud storage. Or maybe you're eager to update your database
administration skills, and establish your credentials as a modern large-scale
analytic database manager. This course and
this specialization is part of will
help you get there.