In addition to using
HDFS for storage, you can store your data using cloud services such as
Amazon web services, Microsoft Azure, or
Google Cloud platform. Today, some companies store
big data on-premises in HDFS, some store it in Cloud Storage, and some use
a hybrid approach using both HDFS and cloud storage. The major reasons
why companies use cloud storage are
cost and scalability. Usually, it costs less to
store some amount of data in cloud storage than it
would to store it in HDFS. As the amount of data you need to store grows larger and larger, it's often easier to pay incrementally larger amounts of money to a cloud storage provider than it is to purchase new hard disks and new servers and install
them in a data center. Amazon has many cloud services
but their storage service is called S3 which is short
for Simple Storage Service. S3 is the most popular
cloud storage platform, and it's the one you
will use in this course when you're using
something other than HDFS. Hybrid Impala can use S3 very
much like they use HDFS. So most of the time when
you're querying a table, you won't even notice if
the data is in S3 or in HDFS. S3 organizes data into buckets. Buckets are like the folders at the top or highest level
of a file system. Buckets in S3 must have
globally unique names. So if anyone else in the world is using a specific name
for a bucket, you must pick a different name. Within a bucket, you can
store files and folders. Technically, S3
stores all the files in your bucket in
a flat file system, and it simulates
folder structures by using slashes
in the filenames. But that's not something
you need to be concerned with for this course. S3 is connected to the internet. The data you store in S3 can
be accessed from anywhere. S3 provides ways to
control who has access to the data though you
can make it public or restrict access to
certain users or networks. There is only one instance
of S3 and it's operated by Amazon and runs across Amazon's
data centers globally. HDFS, on the other hand, is a file system that
exists on a Hadoop cluster. There are many
incidences of HDFS. There's one on
every Hadoop cluster. Data stored in HDFS is generally not accessible
from everywhere. Access is usually restricted to specific private networks. The major way that S3 is
different from HDFS is that S3 provides storage
and nothing more. S3 cannot process your data. It can only store it and
provide it when requested. HDFS, on the other hand, typically stores files on
the same computers that also provide processing power
to your big data system. So if you're using
HDFS to store files, then the files on HDFS reside on the same computers where data processing engines
like Hive and Impala run. When you run a query
in Hive or Impala, if the data for the table you're querying is stored in HDFS, then Hive or Impala can
routinely read that data off the hard disk on the computer
where it's running. This is called data locality
or just locality for short. The processing happens on the same location where
the data is stored. If you store your data
in cloud service like S3 and there is no data locality, Hive or Impala must
fetch the data from S3 over the network
before it can process it. This makes queries run
a little bit slower, but nowadays the networks that connect
data centers together are so fast that the difference
is often insignificant. The readings in this course
we'll show how to access S3 from the VM. But I want to point out to you now that when you're
working on the VM, HDFS is local
because we stimulate an entire HDFS cluster
within the single VM. So you do not need
internet access while using HDFS in this course. If you using S3 though, you will need
a network connection. You also won't be able to browse S3 files using the
Hue file browser. It currently requires you
to have right access to a bucket if you want
to browse it directly, and we are not able to provide write access to
all Coursera learners. You have read access only to the S3 bucket you'll
use for this course, but you can use Hue to work with Hive and Impala tables that
use S3 for their storage.