In this course you'll learn
to create tables for Hive and Impala and load data into them. But before you can create new tables, you'll need to see what
tables already exists. The easiest way to do
this is by using Hue. Hue is a web browser based
analytics workbench that provides a user interface to Hive,
Impala, and other tools. It's widely used in the real world and it's installed on the VM that
we use in this specialization. If you completed the first and
second courses in this specialization, you already learned how to use Hue,
so some of this should be familiar. With the VM set up and running, you can
access Hue by opening the web browser in the VM, and clicking the link for
Hue in the Bookmarks toolbar. Hue includes a number of
different interfaces. Many of which,
you will not use in this course. There are just a few
interfaces that you will use. Recall from the earlier courses
in this special edition that one of the ones you do need
to use is the table browser. Click the Menu icon in the upper left
corner, then under browsers click Tables. Here in the table browser, you can click
Databases to see what databases exist. You can see there are databases named default, fly, fun, toy, and wax. You can click the name of a database
to see what tables are in it. I'll click fun. You can see that the fun database
has tables named card_rank, card_suit, games, and inventory. Then you can click on
the name of the table to see more details about that table. I'll click games. If you go to the Columns tab, you can
see that this games table has 8 columns, id, name, inventor, year, mean age, mean players, max players,
and least price. You can also click the sample tab to
see a sample of the data in this table. So the table browser in Hue
provides a convenient interface for browsing tables through simple point and
click actions. And if you completed the first and
second course in this specialization, you should recall it as well. In a big data environment
where you're running Hive or Impala, the information about what
databases and tables exist, and what columns are defined in them, is
stored in something called the metastore. This is sometimes called
the Hive metastore because of its origin as a part of Hive. So when you use Hue to browse the
databases and tables that are available to Hive and Impala, Hue gets that information
from the metastore and presents it to you. Recall that Hue also has an interface for
running SQL queries on tables. Notice the BigQuery button
in the top bar in Hue. When you click the right side of
this button, a drop down menu opens. Under Editor, in the drop down menu,
you'll see options for Impala and Hive. There are some other options below that. You can ignore those for now. I'll click Impala. And this opens up the query editor for
Impala. The query editor for
Hive is nearly identical. It says Hive at the top instead of Impala. But besides that, it looks the same. All the features I'll describe here are
also available in the Hive query editor. When you're in the query editor, you can use this assist panel on the left
side to browse the databases and tables. If the assist panel is hidden,
you can click to show it. And you should make sure that the SQL mode
is active at the top of the assist panel. Click this database icon to make
sure that's the active mode. You can use the assist panel
to see what databases exist. If you're already in one of the databases, you'll have to click this back arrow to
go back to the list of all the databases. You can click the name of the database
to see what tables are in it. If you click the name of a table,
you'll see the columns in it. And you can click the letter i
icon to the right of a table name to see more details about the table. This is all very similar to what you can
do through the table browser I showed earlier in this video. Recall that Hive and
Impala both access the same tables. These are two different engines operating
on one set of underlying tables and data. So on the VM when you choose to
use the Hive query editor or the Impala query editor,
you’re simply choosing which SQL engine will run the queries on
that shared set of tables. Sometimes people call these
shared tables Hive tables because the information about them
is stored in Hive’s metastore. But if you hear this terminology,
Hive tables, it does not mean that those tables
are available only to Hive. They're also available to Impala and
to some other engines like Apache Spark. So if you're using a Hadoop cluster or a big data platform that's based on
Hadoop, multiple engines and other tools can all access the shared tables
that are defined in the metastore. However, there are other SQL engines
that do not run in Hadoop environments. They do not use the metastore,
they maintain their table structures and store their data in other places. For example on the VM, you might
notice that we have two other SQL engines installed, MySQL and PostgreSQL. And you can run queries using these
engines in Hue, but the tables and data that these engines
use is totally separate. And in this course we will
not use MySQL or PostgreSQL. We'll only be using Hive and Impala. In the upcoming weeks of this course,
you'll learn how to create new databases and tables in Hue and how to modify or
remove existing ones.