In the previous videos in this lesson, I presented Hue as the SQL
interface to Hive and Impala. But actually, Hue is only one of
many interfaces to Hive and Impala. Besides Hue, there are a variety
of other SQL query tools, sometimes called SQL clients,
that can be set up to to work with Hive or Impala, as well as other
SQL query engines. Like the query editors in Hue, these utilities allow you to enter SQL
statements, run them, and see the results. Some of these are Web browser based, others can be installed on Windows or
Mac or Linux. Some are command line applications,
others have a graphical user interface. There are too many of these to name. But just as one example, there's an open
source one called SQuirreL SQL Client that's been around for a long time. It can be installed on
different platforms and can be configured to run SQL statements
on an instance of Hive or Impala. Many data analysts today need to do more
with the results of a query than just display it in a table. So in the last 20 years or so there
has been enormous growth in the use of analytics and business intelligence, or
BI software, which can create charts and graphs and maps and other data
visualizations based on SQL query results. Again, there are far too
many of these to name, but one of the best known ones is Tableau. Many of these applications allow the user
to manually enter SQL statements to run on Hive or Impala or
other SQL engines. And many of them can also automatically
generate SQL statements as you interact with them through
a graphical user interface. These applications can be used to create
reports, interactive dashboards, and more. All these tools and applications
from the most basic SQL clients, through the most sophisticated analytics
software need some way to connect to an instance of Hive or Impala to be
able to run SQL statements on them. There are a few standard interface
protocols that can be used to do this. The two best known of these are ODBC and
JDBC. These are two different interface
standards that virtually any software can use to connect to
virtually any SQL engine. Both Hive and
Impala support both ODBC and JDBC. Different SQL interface
applications typically use one or the other of these standards. For example, Tableau uses ODBC,
and SQuirreL SQL Client uses JDBC. Also, custom code written by
data scientists, data engineers, and developers can use ODBC or
JDBC to connect to SQL engines. Scripts written in popular
languages like Python and R can use either of these standard
interfaces to run SQL queries on Hive or Impala and then process the results. So I mentioned two kinds of user
interfaces, query tools and analytics and BI software, and two underlying
interface standards, ODBC and JDBC. They can work with most with any SQL
engine, including Hive and Impala. But many SQL engines also have
specialized interface applications that are designed to work only
with that one SQL engine. Hive and Impala also have that. Hive includes a specialized
command line interface, or CLI, called Beeline, and Impala has
a specialized CLI called Impala Shell. Both of these are accessed from
the command line or the terminal. And both of these are installed on the VM, so they're available for
you to use in this course. In the honors lesson, you can learn
how to use Beeline and Impala Shell. But the main point here is that
although you'll be using Hue throughout this course, the SQL statements you'll write can be
run in numerous different applications. Hue is just an interface, and in this course you shouldn't
focus too much on the interface. You should focus on the SQL statements.