The Internet and modern computing have produced explosive growth in data volumes, but also new ways to store data. When storing petabytes of data for analysis, you have some options, and keep in mind is not just that you want to store your data, you also want to analyze it to gain new insight. Though you really have related decisions to make about the storage and processing of your big data. Some organizations physically store their data on servers in their own data centers. A server is simply a computer that provides services to other computers through a network. Storing data on servers in your own data center is called on-premises or on-prem storage. By the way, you might read about on-premise storage, this is a mistake in word usage. If you look up the words in a dictionary, you will see that premises and premise are two different words with different meanings, and on-premises is the right term in this case. The first enterprises to store large volumes of data stored it on-prem because there was no other choice. They provisioned hundreds or thousands of servers with a dedicated network to join the servers together into a cluster, thus cluster configurations remain useful today. And for a typical set-up, each server in the cluster contributes both data storage with a set of disk drives and processing capacity with CPUs and random access memory. Within on-premise cluster like this, you can increase storage and computing capacity together by adding more servers, also called node or host to the cluster. Today, you can store your data just as well using cloud services such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform. These services let companies choose to keep storage and computing power together, or keep data in cloud storage and use and pay for computing power only when needed, or you can take a hybrid approach maintaining some data on-premises and some data in the cloud. Cloud storage is attractive for many cases because it lets you start quickly, start small and easily increase storage as your data grows. With the separation of storage and computing in the cloud, you can support occasional processing needs with transient compute clusters that are elastic, meaning that they are sized on the fly to support the data processing involved and the response time you need at the time. This is especially attractive for intermittent or bursty workloads. You can even have different teams that access the same shared storage with different optimally-sized compute clusters. Cloud providers let you pay for storage and processing only as you use it. For cluster on-premises, you can start with a test cluster of a few virtual machines or repurpose servers, but an enterprise grade cluster will usually involve dedicated hardware, needing major investment in real estate, equipment and personnel, and companies usually need long review times to make these investment decisions. Think of it this way. Suppose you need a means of transport like a car, or a truck, or a scooter, would you rather rent or buy? If you plan to use the vehicle only one or two times a month, it is cheaper and probably more convenient for you to rent. But if you need the vehicle nearly every day for several years, then you most likely want to buy. Even though this means a higher initial cost and the extra effort of keeping and maintaining your vehicle, owning will cost you far less than renting in the long run. Of course, you could choose to rent even with constant use. This would let you change your type or style of vehicle with very little trouble, but you would pay a premium cost for this flexibility. It is similar with cloud or on-prem clusters. In the cloud, you rent storage and computing power from providers who take care of hardware and a mass of other details for you. They give you flexibility and convenience at a cost that makes the most sense for light usage. On the other hand, a data warehouse that will be used for more or two or more than two or three years with many users with ongoing analytic workloads can be more economical overall if your organization chooses to host it on-prem. However, many organizations have approval and accounting processes that make it difficult to build or expand an on-prem data center. Datacenter investments are considered capital expenditures, whereas cloud service costs are typically considered operating expenditures. Capital expenditures are long-term investments, though they're subject to a lot of scrutiny and accountants are required to amortize the costs over multiple years. Operating expenditures are short-term decisions with less risk though they're usually subject to less scrutiny and fewer accounting requirements. For this reason, many companies use cloud services even when the costs are higher. Midsize and larger enterprises may well take a hybrid approach to storage and computing because they have data of very different sorts, some generated online and some in-house, as well as a mix of transient and sustain compute needs. After all you may want to own a scooter, but rent a truck on occasion to do some hauling. With evolving offerings in hardware, software, and service providers, you can expect to see a growing variety of choices including new hybrid choices in the future. Unfortunately, analytic tools like Apache Hive and Apache Impala work equally well with data on-premises or in the cloud.