In this video, you'll
learn how to start Impala Shell from
the command line, and use it interactively. With the VM running,
open the terminal. To start Impala Shell, use the command impala-shell. You can specify
arguments after this, but on the core VM none
are required. In other environments you might need to include arguments. For example, you might
need to use -i to specify the host name and
port of an Impala daemon. That's the name of
the service that Impala Shell needs to connect
to to run queries. To see all the
available arguments, also called options, you
can use the -h option, short for help, that prints
a list of all the options, but does not start Impala Shell. You can also use this same
-h option with Beeline. One useful option is -d, which sets the current
database on startup. If you don't specify it, then the current database
after you start Impala Shell will be
the default database. I'll specify -d fun, then press "Enter" to
start Impala Shell. You'll see some messages as
it starts up and connects to an Impala daemon including
a random tip of the day. If you see a message
indicating that Impala shell could not
connect to an Impala daemon, then please see troubleshooting the VM in the course resources, which explains ways to fix this. When Impala shell is connected, you'll see a prompt to
enter SQL statements. The prompt includes
the host name and port of the Impala daemon
you're connected to, and ends with a
greater than sign. On the VM, it's
localhost port 21,000. Now you can enter and run SQL statements just
like in Beeline, and results are
displayed similarly. Like Beeline, Impala shell requires statements to be
terminated with a semicolon. The command to quit Impala shell is different
than in Beeline. It's the word quit with
no exclamation mark before it, and in Impala shell you do need to terminate the quit command
with a semicolon. So, you learned about
a few important differences between Beeline and Impala shell, but mostly they
work the same way. A few more things
they have in common. In both, you can clear the screen by
pressing "Control+L". In both when you execute a query, the entire results set is returned and
printed to the screen, not just 100 rows like in
the You Query Editors. In both you can cancel a query
by pressing "Control+C". Later in the course,
you'll learn about more ways to use Beeline
and Impala shell.