At this point in the course,
you should have the VM set up and running. Throughout the course, you will need
to use the VM to follow along with demonstrations and
to complete quizzes and assignments. The two SQL engines you'll use
in this course, Hive and Impala, are both installed on the VM. And all the data you'll need to query with
those engines is preloaded in tables on the VM. To interact with this data and
these query engines, you'll be using Hue. Hue is a web browser based analytics works
bench that provides a user interface to Hive and Impala. With the VM set up and running, you can
open the web browser in the VM, and click the link in the bookmarks
toolbar to access Hue. Hue includes a number of
different interfaces, many of which you will
not use in this course. There are just a few
interfaces that you will use. If you completed the first
course in this specialization, you should recall that one of the Hue
interfaces is the Table Browser. Click the icon in the upper left corner,
then under browsers, click Tables. Here in the Table Browser, you can
click Databases to see databases exist. You can see there are databases named
default, fly, fun, toy, and wax. You can click the name of the database
to see what tables are in it. I'll click fun, you can see that
the fun database has tables named card_rank, card_suit,
games, and inventory. Then you can click the name of a table
to see more details about that table. I'll click games. If you go to the columns tab you can see
that this games table has eight columns, id, name, inventor, year,
min_age, min_players, max_players, and list_price. You can also click the Sample tab to
see a sample of the data in this table. So the Table Browser in Hue provides a
convenient interface for browsing tables, through simple point and click actions. And if you completed the first
course in the specialization, you should recall it well. In this course, you'll go beyond
simple point and click actions and learn how to run SQL statements
to query the tables. Hue has a different interface for that. Notice the big Query button
in the top bar in Hue. When you click the right side of
this button, a dropdown menu opens. Under Editor in the dropdown menu,
you'll see options for Impala and Hive. There are some other options below that,
you can ignore those for now. I'll click Impala and
this opens the query editor for Impala. The query for Hive is nearly identical, it says Hive at the top instead of Impala,
but besides that it looks the same. All the features I'll describe here are
also available in the Hive query editor. When you're in the query editor, you can use this assist panel on the left
side to browse the databases and tables. If the assist panel is hidden,
you can click to show it. And you should make sure that the SQL mode
is active at the top of the assist panel. Click this database icon to make
sure that's the active mode. You can use this assist panel
to see what databases exist. If you're already in one of
the databases you'll have to click this back arrow to go back to
the list of all the databases. You can click the name of the data
bases to see what tables are in it. If you click the name of a table
you'll see the columns in it. And you can click the letter i icon
to the right of a table name to see more details about the table. The is all very similar to what you can do
through the table browser I showed earlier in this video. The most important feature of the query
editor is this text area in the center, where you can enter and
edit SQL statements then run them. We'll be using this extensively
throughout the course. When you click inside this text area, another assist panel opens
up on the right side. We will not be using this assist
panel at this point in the course, so you can click to hide it for now. Throughout the remainder of this course
you want to keep the Hue query editor open in the web browser on your VM. You'll need to use it in almost every
lesson for the rest of the course. So Hue has sequel query editors for
both Hive and Impala, for most of this course,
it doesn't matter which one you use. Most of the SQL statements you'll learn
about will work the same with both Hive and Impala and with most SQL engines too, including relational databases and
data warehouse systems. Whenever I show a SQL
statement that is not broadly compatible across different
engines, I'll be sure to indicate that. Typically, Impala returns query
results faster than Hive, so I'd encourage you to use the Impala
query editor throughout this course. The Impala query editor
is the default one. So if you click the center of
the big Query in the top bar in Hue, that will take you directly
to the Impala query editor. Keep in mind that Hive and Impala are both accessing the same
tables with the same data. These are two different engines operating
on one set of underlying tables and data. So on the VM when you choose to
use the Hive query editor or the Impala query editor,
you're simply choosing which SQL engine will run the queries on
that shared set of tables. Also a quick comment about terminology,
the word database as I've used it in this video, refers to a logical
container for a group of tables. If you're familiar with the concept
of a named space, then you can think of a database as the same thing,
it's just an abstract container. In this case,
a container that holds tables. Within one database the tables
all need to have different names. But two different tables can have the same
name if they're in different databases. But this word database also
has some broader meanings. Any organized collection of
data can be called a database. SQL engines in general
are often called databases, and one specific instance of a SQL
engine is often called a database. To try to resolve this confusion
sometimes people use the word schema, to refer specifically
to a group of tables. In this course,
I'll use the word database not schema, but keep in mind that you might see this
word schema used to mean to same thing, a logical container for a group of tables.