Welcome to analyzing big
data with SQL, I'm Ian Cook. This course teaches
the fundamentals of the SQL SELECT statement, which is the most important part
of the SQL language, and the one part you
definitely need to know if you're doing
data analysis. SQL is an essential skill for data analysts, and
data scientists. It's the standard
language for accessing tabular data, and
it's ubiquitous. Whether you're
working with data in a relational database,
in a data warehouse, or in a set of files on
a cluster or in Cloud storage, in all these cases you can use SQL to retrieve and
analyze this data. Popular applications
for analytics, and business intelligence
virtually all use SQL to retrieve
or analyze data. Also data scientists,
data engineers, and Machine Learning
developers who use other languages
like Python and R, often also use SQL to connect their code to a wide variety
of different data sources. So you can use SQL
to create data of all sizes across
numerous different systems, and in this course you'll gain SQL skills that apply to
all of these systems. But there's a particular
emphasis in this course on a newer breed of SQL engines. Open source distributed
SQL engines that can query
extremely large datasets, engines like Hive, Impala,
Presto, and Drill. These engines are
a cornerstone of modern analytic database systems. As data has grown bigger and bigger at an ever
accelerating rate, it's become impractical to store it in relational databases, and too expensive to store it in traditional data warehouses. So systems built with
these newer distributed SQL engines have increasingly replaced those older systems. In this course, you'll
have an opportunity to get hands-on experience using two of these engines,
Hive and Impala. These are the most
widely deployed of the open source SQL engines, and they are the standard in numerous companies
and organizations. If you're new to SQL, this course is
a great place to learn it. It teaches the basics of the SQL SELECT statement
one step at a time, and gives you opportunities to practice writing and running SQL SELECT statements to answer real-world types
of questions. If you're already
familiar with SQL, maybe you've used it to
query relational databases, then this course
will help you cement your knowledge and
update your skills, so you can be proficient with modern distributed SQL engines. This course is the second
in the specialization modern big data analysis
with SQL from Cloudera. The sequence of courses in this specialization is
designed to provide excellent preparation for the Cloudera Certified Associate Data Analyst certification exam. This certification was created to identify qualified data analysts, with a talent for using
SQL to analyze big data. It's a great way to
stand out and be recognized by
potential employers. You can earn this
certification by taking a hands-on practical exam using the same SQL engines that this specialization
teaches, Hive and Impala. If you're interested
in this certification, you should take the Honors
track of this course. In the Honors lessons you'll have the opportunity to gain
some additional skills, learn a few more techniques, and become more resourceful
as a data analyst using SQL with
these big data engines. If you have not already taken the first course in
this specialization, foundations for SQL on big data, then I would definitely encourage
you to take that course before continuing with
this second course. That first course teaches the key concepts behind
relational databases, SQL, and big data. The final part of that first
course shows how to set up the virtual machine that you'll use for hands-on exercises, and practice in this course. Please go ahead now and
watch the next video which gives a whirlwind review
of that first course, that should help
you decide whether to take it if you
haven't already. Whether you are looking for a basic intuitive introduction to data analysis with SQL or you're eager to establish your credentials as a big
data analytics professional, this course and the
specialization it's a part of, will help you to get there.