Welcome to week two of
analyzing big data with SQL. In the previous week's lessons, you ran some simple
SELECT statements, but you did not yet use the SELECT statement
to do data analysis. You just use it to do
some simple data retrieval. Data retrieval is
important and it's definitely something you'll
do with the SELECT statement, but what the SELECT
statement can do goes far beyond just
data retrieval. Data analysis is when you try to answer questions
using the data or you tried to
discover things in the data like patterns
and outliers. Sometimes the term
data mining is used to refer to the practice of discovering things in the data, but I'll stick to
the broader more popular term, data analysis. To do data analysis, you need to do more than
just to retrieve data, you also need to manipulate or transform data in different ways. These two terms, to
manipulate and transform, refer broadly and generically to any operations performed on data. Later, you'll learn
some related terms that have more narrow
specific meanings. In this course when I talk about manipulating or
transforming data, I'm not talking about changing the existing data in the tables. I'm talking about reading the existing data from the tables essentially making a copy of it and then
manipulating the copy, and returning the manipulated
copy as the result. So for this entire course, you can consider the data in
the tables to be immutable, it cannot be altered
or modified in place. Throughout this course
you will never alter or modify the
data in the tables. Also, this word manipulate
or manipulation has some negative connotations
in common use like currency manipulation or
psychological manipulation. It can be used to mean
falsify or modify unfairly. But in the context of
SQL and data analysis, it has no negative connotations, it just means to perform
some operations on data to generate a result. So typically, the practice of data analysis is prompted by questions or by the need to make decisions that are
informed by the data. In this week of the course and throughout the remaining weeks, I'll teach you how to
answer different types of questions using
SELECT statements. You'll learn the fundamentals
of data analysis with SQL including
some rules and conventions, and you'll do some simple
data retrieval too.