SQL provides built-in functions for performing
common aggregations. These are called
aggregate functions. In this video, I'll introduce the most important
aggregate functions and I'll describe what
arguments they expect. SQL's aggregate function
for counting rows in a table is COUNT. To count rows, you do not need to know
what's in the rows. So the count function
does not require that you specify
what values to aggregate. In SQL, there's a special syntax
for the count function. Its COUNT(*). You use an asterisk, a star, as the argument, and this
returns the number of rows. This star syntax is used
only for the COUNT function, not with other
aggregate functions. You'll see in a later video
that you can specify different arguments
to the COUNT function but for now, just use COUNT(*). The aggregate function
for adding is SUM. SUM adds up the values
in a particular column. When you use
the sum function in SQL, you need to specify
what values to add up. So for example, you could use SUM(salary) to add up the values in
the column named Salary. You'll see that for all
the aggregate functions besides COUNT, you need to specify
an argument like this, so the aggregate function knows
what values to aggregate. The aggregate function
for computing the average or mean of a column is AVG. For example to calculate
the average salary, you would use AVG(salary). The aggregate function for
computing the minimum, the lowest value in
a column, is MIN. So to calculate
the minimum salary, you would use MIN(salary), and finally, the aggregate function for
computing the maximum, the highest value
in a column is MAX. So to calculate
the maximum salary you would use MAX(salary). These five aggregate
functions are all provided by all the
major SQL engines. There are some other
aggregate functions beyond these five but they're less commonly used and they're beyond
the scope of this course. The names of aggregate functions are typically case insensitive, but by convention, we set
them all in capital letters. This is different
from the names of other built-in functions which we set in all lowercase letters. These different
capitalization conventions can help you to distinguish the
aggregate functions from other functions
in this course.