Recall that the data in Hive
and Impala tables is stored in files in a directory
in HDFS or S3. There is not just one
fixed file format for this table data. Hive and Impala support a number of different
file formats. When you create a table
with Hive and Impala, you specify which format to use in the stored as Clause of
the create table statement. In this lesson, I'll describe some different file formats
that Hive and Impala support. I'll focus on the four
that are used most often; Textfiles, Avro files,
Parquet files and ORC files. I'll describe the advantages and disadvantages of
using each of these. Mostly in terms of trade-offs, between human readability
and performance and also interoperability with other tools you might work with. Different patterns for storage, ingest or querying can make one format a better choice
than another format. With big data,
the differences can have significant impact
on performance. The choice of format depends partly on which query
engine you're using. Textfiles, Avro files, and Parquet files are compatible
with both Hive and Impala. But ORC files are
compatible only with Hive. I'll also give
a quick overview of some other file formats
that are used less often. The SequenceFile
and RCFile formats. Sometimes the choice of which file format to use
when you create a table, is based simply on which file format the
data is already in. For example, if you have
an HDFS directory or an S3 bucket with
Parquet files already in it, then you can just create a Parquet base table
to query that existing data with Hive and Impala without moving
it or copying it. But in other
situations you'll have the flexibility to choose
which file format to use and you'll convert data into that format as you load it into the table
storage directory. You'll learn more about that in the next week of the course. For now, just remember
that it is possible to convert data between
these different file formats. So you won't get trapped in a dead end by your choice
of file format. However, making the right choice
when you first create a table can save you from needing to convert
the files later, which can be
an expensive operation if the data has grown very large.