With so many different file formats, you might wonder which one will work
best for your data and use case. There are several factors to consider
when choosing a file format. For example, what's the ingest pattern? In other words, how is the data loaded? Will the data set be loaded all at once,
or will new records be added continually? If the data is loaded all at once,
a columnar file format like Parquet might be able to take advantage
of repeated patterns in the data, to store it more efficiently. But if it's being loaded
in very small batches, Parquet can be less efficient
than other file formats. Another factor is what tools
you'll use to work with the data. This defines how much
interoperability you'll need. For example, will you be using MapReduce,
Hive, Impala, Spark or any other tools? What formats do those tools support? In general, text files and Parquet
files offer the best interoperability. When you use these file formats, you'll have more flexibility in
how you can process the data. However, if you're using only Hive,
not Impala, then the ORC file format might
be a better choice because there are some features of Hive that
require the data to be in ORC files. Another question is,
what's the expected lifetime of the data? Is it temporary, such as an input to a job that will
be deleted after the job completes? Or will you need to retain the data and
be able to read it years from now? If the data is being stored for a long time then you should choose a file
format with good interoperability. Because years from now you might not
be using the same tools that you're using today. Also for long-term data storage,
consider choosing a file format that stores the schema
information in the data files. That way you'll always be able
to determine the names and data types of the columns
in the data files. And consider choosing a file format
that supports schema evolution so you can add, remove or
modify columns in a Hive or Impala table without needing to make
changes to the data files themselves. Generally, Avro and
Parquet are good choices for long-term data storage. Somewhat related is the question,
what are your requirements for data size and query performance? If you're planning to store
a huge amount of data and you need to correlate efficiently, then
you should choose a compressed file format that's optimized for query performances. Parquet files are typically
a good choice for this. The bottom line is there was no single
file format that is best in all cases. The best format depends on your data and
what you're doing with it. Use these considerations along with how
each format works to inform your decision.