In the previous two lessons,
you learned about the select list, which specifies what columns should
be returned in your query results. The next part of a select statement that
comes right after the select list is the FROM clause. That's the subject of this lesson. The FROM clause specifies which table
the data you're querying should come from. You'll see later in this course that
the FROM clause can do some other things, like combine two tables together. But for
now we'll consider only the case where the FROM clause refers to a single table. Earlier in the course, I described how the FROM clause is
optional in many sequel dialects. But you can't do much without it aside
from testing out different functions and operators. So from here on, I'll mostly treat the FROM clause like
a required part of the select statement. As you already saw in previous lessons, the basic syntax of the form
clause is very simple. It's just from table reference. Table reference is often simply the name
of the table in the current database. So if the current database is fun,
then to query data from the games table,
you just use the FROM clause from games. Recall that a database is just a logical
container for a group of tables. It's sometimes called a schema. And recall that the current database or the active database is the particular one
that you're in, that you're connected to. When you use just a table
name in the from clause, this makes your query dependent on
which database is the current database. The current database needs to be the one
that contains the table you're querying. So if you're querying a table in
one of the non defaults databases, you need to remember first
to connect to that database. Or to switch into that database by using
the active database selector in ue or by running a ue's statement if you’re
in a command line sequel interface. It's easy to forget to do this. You might have already stumbled on this
when attempting to run queries in the VM. I do this all the time. You get an error like table not found or
could not resolve table reference. Or worse than that, you might forget
to switch into the intended database, and the current database might have
a table with the same name as the one you intended to be in. In that case, you might get a more cryptic
error, or your query might succeed, but you'd be querying a completely different
table than the one you thought you were querying. This has happened to me and
caused me a lot of confusion. Also, if you're sending a SQL statement
to someone else for them to execute, it could be ambiguous which database
you intended for them to use. Fortunately there is a way to avoid this. Instead of using just the table
name in the FROM clause, you can qualify the table
name with the database name. The syntax for
this is FROM databasename.tablename. For example, FROM fun.games. If you use this qualified form
of a table reference, and it doesn't matter what
the current database is, the statement will always query
the table in the specified database. In this course, I will often just use
unqualified table names in the FROM clause to keep things concise. But it's generally a good practice to
qualify table names when you're running SQL statements in the real world.